Okay.
Good morning, good afternoon, good evening, everyone,
depending on where in the world you are.
Um, uh, welcome to our first
of our AI fireside chat series.
Um, today, myself, uh, I'm Kevin McGee.
I'm the CTO for Zeit.
And, uh, Constantine, uh,
Luan, who's the head of data science.
You know, we're going to, you know,
we're gonna have a chat today, um, about all things AI
and what Zeit is doing in that space.
We're gonna do this as a, as a, as a series, um,
over the next, you know, uh, few weeks and months.
So, uh, we're not gonna probably go into massive amounts
of detail in every area, but in, in future sessions,
you know, we'll, we'll do some live demos, you know,
we'll bring some other people along
and have a, have a conversation.
But today we're just gonna introduce some of the things
that we've been doing, you know, over the last few months
and, you know, some of the upcoming things.
And, you know, we, we'll go from there.
So, with that in mind, um, Constantine,
we've been doing AI in inside for, you know, many years now.
You know, we've, you know, we've, we've, we've got,
you know, uh, quite a bit of capability.
Um, just briefly, you know, do you want to bring everybody,
you know, up to speed on, you know, just
what we've been doing and, you know, uh, and so on.
And you're on mute. So we've started, well, yeah.
Nice book. So, yeah. Hi. Hi, Kevin. Thanks for the intro.
And yeah, I mean, I think we've been doing like at, at Zeit
and previously Scraping Hub doing, um,
like various projects for a while.
I think the biggest one recently was the, uh,
automatic extraction, which is now part of, uh, Zeit API,
where the main goal is to, uh, do extraction
of like a few different data points, uh, like data types,
such as like article products,
show postings from all kinds of pages.
And the magic here is that it, um, like it works on, uh,
any website, like it is trained on some websites,
but we check how it works on websites it haven't seen.
And this makes it like robust to like any website changes.
And also it means that like we have people coming to us
and they can hit, like run, run their website,
like run their jobs
and get the results, uh, immediately,
which like makes the whole process much shorter.
Yeah. I think putting this in context for anyone
who may not be familiar, like the significance of this, uh,
I suppose is the traditional way of,
of doing web scraping was to write a lot of code
and using, you know, frameworks like scrape
or other, other tools, you know,
so software developers write a lot of code,
and then of course, if the underlying website changed,
you know, the, you know, you had
to rewrite the code and make adjustments.
What we're talking about
and what's been in place is this idea of, you know,
essentially no code, you know, at scale, you know,
that we've been bringing in, which is, which is incredible.
Um, I, I want to pick up on something
that you were saying there as well that you, you, you kind
of have been passing mentioned that, um, yes,
we've had this auto extract product, um, in, in the market
for, for quite a while,
but we're, we're, we're sunsetting that individual project.
We're rolling it into our, uh, design API product, you know,
maybe just like, you know, bring, um, you know,
the audience up to speed on why we're doing that.
Uh, yeah. Yeah. So I think the main reason is what we, uh,
see that, like, to extract the data we need
to also download the page.
And so automatic extraction handles both
downloading and extraction.
And, um, very often people want
to customize the download process.
Like they want to maybe set a different location,
maybe they perform some actions in the browser
or like tweak some like yeah, JavaScript setting on and off.
And, uh, this has a very big overlap with a general problem
of downloading the pages,
because some people still want
to do the extraction themselves
and they want to download, um, the data.
And this is like what one
of the things which ITPI like the main thing,
which API solves,
but it didn't really make sense to have like one service,
which does like downloading and extraction
and another separate service, which does only downloading,
and they have like different ways
and like more limited ways
of customizing the downloading part.
So that's why we Yeah, put it, it makes a lot of sense
because we can benefit from Yeah, better.
Like API unified billing,
the customer has only one bill to pay.
And yeah, it just feels, I think, much better to use, um,
like, and much we can have much more features with the same,
uh, like size of the team.
Yeah. Okay. Brilliant.
Um, uh, also maybe to expand a little bit on, you know, the,
the data types that we currently support in,
in your traditional kind of extraction capability.
Oh, yeah, yeah. So the, the main data,
like the data types,
which we see like the most used are product, which covers
as like very large e-commerce, like large number
of e-commerce use cases, and then article.
So article is normally, um, like it's, um, uh,
like news websites,
but it can also be, blogs can also be like any, any kind
of like publications which look like an article.
Uh, and then, um, we also have, for these two,
we also have data types which help
to implement crawling more efficiently.
Like, for example, uh, product navigation,
which would get like the links to, uh, subcategories, links
to the next page in the list, links to digital products.
And on top of that you can do the crawling.
And then, um, yeah, same for, for, for article.
And then we also have like, job posting, uh,
and then we have like in, in automatic extraction, uh,
we had a larger number of data types,
but we only like carried over the ones which saw the most
adoption, uh, website, API,
and then we'll be slowly moving them as like,
as people see the need for them, uh, in inside API.
Okay. No, brilliant.
Um, I, I think one of the interesting, you know,
and I kind of alluded to it, you know, a little bit earlier,
um, you know, we're, we're getting really close to,
you know, the, the requirement that for, for many,
many use cases, you know, the need to write custom code is,
is, is probably gonna be, you know, few
and far between is, is kind of our hope, you know,
won't always be the case, but that's kind of our hope.
But, you know, behind the scenes, you know,
and we don't, we, we haven't released this, you know,
publicly, but one of the things that we, we have created
and your team has, is, is kind of created
and built is, is this idea of, you know, kind
of the vi visual annotations
and quick fixes that that really, um, speed up the ability
to retrain, you know, the, the models.
And so it's a, a kind of a two-parter question one, well,
why do we need to, to retrain the models?
And, you know, and just a little bit about,
you know, well, how does that work?
Right? Right. Yeah.
Like w we, we see that with machine learning instruction,
as I say, yeah, it's like super nice
that it works on any website,
but then, uh, as it's based on machine learning,
it can make mistakes and it will make mistakes.
And for some projects it can be like, not too bad,
but for some projects we really want like,
the best quality possible.
And so, um, we like people
or we would notice a, an error if we're doing a project
for a client, or like a client would notice, um,
like a incorrect extraction.
And then like, uh, previously we would have to, okay,
add this page and update it, retrain the model,
and this whole cycle might take like weeks and,
but now we can actually do this whole
cycle in minutes instead.
And the way we do this is that we can, uh, like, um,
add some like hints to the model to guide it
to the correct, uh, extraction.
And, uh, this hints they're based, um,
like based on like selecting specific
like areas on the page.
And they, they don't have to be exact.
For example, we would often see, okay, we are like,
let's say we're picking up some price from related products,
and instead of like having to specify exactly from
where we need to pick the price, we could just say, okay,
don't look in this area of the page,
and this area can be quite generic, just some container
with related products.
And that immediately excludes this area for the model,
but then it is able
to pick up the correct price from the right,
uh, part of the page.
So this allows us to be quite robust to any, like,
website changes or model changes.
So that worst case we fall back
to the default model behavior,
but normally we, we just, um, uh, yeah, obtain correct
and improved results this way.
Yeah, I think it's, it's potentially one of those, uh,
sessions that we might do down the line.
It'd be great to show everyone just, uh, some
of the capability that we have, you know, around doing that.
And, you know, and I think it, it leads into this topic
that, you know, Zeit for many years has been driving this,
um, this vision to, to remove the complexity
and to remove the challenges that people have in this space.
Um, and you know, you've, you know, we've,
that's why the whole idea
of AI extraction was created in the first place.
It's, you know, the whole reason why ZI API was created, it,
it removes an awful lot of the challenges.
But last year we created a, a, a capability
that was particularly revolutionary in this,
in this space, you know?
And so, you know, it's the, it's the ability
to do everything that you just described there
from a raw HTML perspective.
And, you know, I'd love for you to just expand maybe on
that, you know, one, well, why, why is this so,
you know, revolutionary?
Why is this so significant?
And, you know, and, and, um, you know, and, and,
and how is it different
or better than, you know, what has proceeded, um, and so on.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So when we started the project first, like, our idea was
that like the quality is what is going to make or break it,
because if we don't reach high enough quality, we, yeah,
we're not going to be useful.
And, uh, that's why we decided, okay, we want to like, put
as much useful features as we can into the model.
And that's why in addition
to providing it like the HTML three
and like other, like the text of the page, we also took the
screenshot of the whole page
and, uh, found a clever way to combine this.
Um, like the, the screenshot features with the page, uh,
features and HTML level features.
And, um, this is a bit similar to
how the human sees the, the page.
Let's say you see, okay, this is like some big thing.
It's like a title that's maybe a name of the product
or the title of the article.
And then you might see, okay, this is like clearly the price
and this small thing is not a price.
Um, and this, this gave like a large boost in quality.
But the drawback as we like, uh, carried over with this,
we saw more and more, uh, like drawbacks
with this, uh, approach.
Like one is, uh, that the cost implication that, uh,
browser rendering is always going to be more expensive than,
uh, downloading just page thel of the page.
And the difference can be like, yeah, five times or so.
And another, another drawback is, um,
sometimes a browser rendering would be, uh, less reliable,
uh, because there might be like various reasons
for the rendering to, to not work e exactly as we want.
Um, although like on some websites, it is mandatory
to render it because we need to execute the JavaScript.
So we, we still want this capability,
but we thought, okay, can we do it without rendering?
And initially we got like, quite a big drop in quality, uh,
from that, uh,
because the, the model didn't lacked this like,
whole page understanding, whole page context.
So we only looked at the individual parts of the page,
but didn't understand how they relate to each other.
And then we found out that actually
by like adjusting the neural network architecture
to like include some, like, uh, elements, uh,
like recurrent neural networks there,
we could actually like close the gap between the raw
and rendered extraction.
And then we, yeah, this is already released in ITPI,
so you can, when doing the extraction, you can specify
that you want to use, uh, extraction from, uh, roach ml,
and that would be like around 10,
10 times faster on average.
And also, uh, yeah, much cheaper as well.
Yeah, no, it's, it's, you know,
it's absolutely incredible, you know, to
to, to get to that level.
And, you know, for everybody listening to this,
you'll start seeing, you know, us talk a bit more,
uh, publicly about this.
We've been running in beta programs
and various things, you know, throughout, you know, the,
the, the end of last year, you know,
but, um, you know, we're, you know, we're, we're,
we're going big with it, you know, now this, this year.
So there'll be a a lot more
to come there, but it's already in the product.
It's already there if anybody wants to try
and use it, you know, that's, that's fantastic.
Okay. So just wanna move on to something slightly different,
a little bit of a, you know, what's coming next?
Where are we going, what are we trying to do?
And if I channel this idea, you know, that we said
before, you know, which is driving everything that we do
inside, we want to keep the costs down, we want
to remove the complexity, remove, you know, the challenges.
One of the challenges that we would've got in the past is
people talking about this, this idea, the AI is fantastic.
You know, I can get my product, you know, schema
as you guys have specified it,
but I've got a, you know, I'm in a particular industry.
I'm, or I'm in a particular use case where there are,
you know, maybe some extra things that are available,
you know, that I, I now have to go and, you know,
and I have to write some extra code,
or I have to do something to get at the, at these extra bits
that are not maybe in the, in the generic schema
that the model was originally trained for.
And, you know, we, you know, you demoed, you know,
for anybody who would've seen the, uh, the,
the extract summit, um, you know, live
or the recordings, you know, you demoed our new capability
around custom attributes at that, at that event.
You know, maybe you can just give us a little bit
of background to, again, to that project,
why we're doing it, you know, what we're, what, what we're,
um, achieving with that now at this point. Yeah,
Yeah, yeah. Yeah. That's,
that's a very, very interesting development.
So yeah, like we, we, we always notice
that in most projects, people always want something extra,
uh, something custom, which doesn't make sense
to include in the main model.
Let's say it's, you are crawling like, uh, jigsaw puzzles,
and you want to know what is the number
of pieces in each puzzle.
And this field can be, like,
spelled slightly differently on different websites.
But, uh, yeah, if you, if you were to, uh, to get it,
you'd need to write some code
and then going from zero code to some code, it,
it immediately increases Yeah.
The cost of the project and the time it takes.
And yeah, so with like A-C-G-B-T excitement,
and we saw immediately that, okay,
this is something which, uh, it can do.
And, um, like it can actually, uh, extract, um, uh,
new attributes, uh, just by, uh,
reading the user description of this attribute,
basically the name, and sometimes, um, like some description
and the type of attribute.
And also, um, like having the access
to the text of the webpage.
Um, but also we saw that, like, we didn't want to use OpenAI
APIs because like, this is like problematic
for many customers to use like some third party APIs
because they, they don't know okay, what will happen with,
uh, with the data they're sending.
And, uh, it's also like, we don't have any control.
We can't guarantee low response times
and so on and so forth.
So, and also there was like an explosion in open source
ecosystem with like people, uh, replicating, uh,
these capabilities with like Facebook
and meta releasing like Lama series of models.
And so we saw that we can actually, uh, implement it using,
um, like our old models,
which are based on open source models,
so we could fine tune them on this task
and basically allow, uh, you as an API user to just specify,
okay, this is like extra attributes I want to include.
And then, uh, we would fetch them, uh, using lms.
And this is coming later this year.
Yeah, no, it's, it's fantastic.
I think we, I think that's probably gonna be one of our, uh,
other talks that it's, it's worth doing,
because I know your team, you know, did a, a, an evaluation
of a lot of the, you know, the public models,
the commercial ones, as well as, you know, many
of the open source, you know, ones and so on.
I think it will be even just, just generally of interest
to people, you know, what your team found and so on.
So that's possibly one we can come back to.
Um, I think it's, it, it's also, you know, really important
to, you know, to recognize that, um, our, you know, so, so
that's now taking the ability of, uh, you know,
AI extraction at scale, then adding this ability to do,
you know, custom attributes
as we're just calling it also at scale
and at the, you know, price points that are, you know, um,
you know, won't obviously be at the same cost as, you know,
regular extraction because there's a bit more compute going
on, but, you know, but those price points will certainly be,
you know, way, way lower than, um, you know, having to
hand code it and do it all yourself.
And the real beauty of all of this is the ability
that it's effectively, you know, it's adaptive,
it self maintains, you know, it reacts to what's going on
with the underlying capability, which is fantastic.
Uh, another kind of, I suppose sneak peek to something
that's coming real soon is, you know, this idea
that we're calling, uh, AI scraping, you know,
which builds on, you know, a lot of the, you know,
the capability that we've talked about before,
but comes at it from a slightly different angle.
You know, maybe you could just explain, you know,
what we have in mind there to everyone.
Yeah, yeah, sure. So
with zet PI like the main capability is that we can send it
to URL and it would extract, let's say product
or article, uh, or job posting
or like any other data type attributes.
Um, the problem with it, with this though, is
that normally people want to, uh,
get the data like from one website
or from like, even a lot of websites.
And to do that, they need to like visit all the pages they,
they want to, to get, uh, data from.
And so this part would require some development.
But then now we, uh, yeah, as I said,
we also provide like models which can understand not only
individual product pages,
but also like sections of the website, let's say a page
with like a list of products or a list of categories.
And they can do like extraction of links from them.
And using this as primitives,
we can actually write like a quite a generic, um, spider,
which works on any website
because of this primitives work on any website.
And so what it allows you to do is you can go to the ui,
you can enter, let's say the website URL
or like a part, like a section of the website
and, um, like select the data type
and hit like, for now it's only products, uh, hit Go.
And basically the, the crawler is running in scrappy cloud
and it's getting, uh, getting you the data according
to the product schema.
Um, yeah. And
because like, there was like actually a similar feature in,
uh, legacy out extract project,
but uh, it was like a custom UI built for this.
And now with that API, we opted
to use the scrape cloud as a basis for this.
And we also open sourcing, well,
we already open sourced the crawler itself,
so you can actually, um, if you want to tweak,
let's say the crawling strategy, you can actually modify it,
upload it to scrape cloud and run it,
and yeah, to support all of that,
like we added some special, uh, new features
to Scrappy Cloud, which allow you to specify like,
which arguments you want to basically satisfy the arguments,
which provides a very nice user experience for that.
And also, since it's scrapy cloud, it also has the api,
so now you can control the crawls, uh,
for the API, uh, as well.
Yeah, no, it's, it's, it's a, it's, it's, uh,
particularly exciting kinda bringing a lot
of this together now, you know, where, you know, we,
we have, you know, we're doing, you know, hundreds
of millions of, you know, requests, you know, every month,
you know, with, with, you know, around extraction requests,
you know, we're, you know, we've got, you know, some
of the largest organizations in the world
are using this capability.
We use our, our whole whole delivery team are using,
you know, many of these, you know, these capabilities.
You know, and, and you know, we've, you know, uh, you know,
as I said, we've, we, we we're dedicated as an organization
to, you know, to removing the complexity to kind
of simplify all of this.
We, we understand a lot of this is complicated,
and so we're trying to, we're we're trying
to bring it together, but one last kind of, you know,
teaser, you know, kind of piece related to, to, to AI
that I just want to touch on.
Uh, and it's, it's back at this same point again about,
you know, making things simple.
So you mentioned earlier that, you know, now
with extraction, we have, you have two choices as a,
as a developer, you can, you can get the full rendered,
you know, browser rendered version of, of, of extraction,
or you can get the, the raw HT ML version of extraction.
And you know, it, it, you know, obviously that's fantastic,
it's great capability, but it means as a developer you have
to make a choice, you know, which should use,
and maybe you have to do experiment,
but we're working on something
and maybe you could tell, you know,
the audience a little bit about, you know,
what we have in mind, you know,
that'll be coming soon, or, or,
Yeah. So yeah, the
here the problem is
that like the raw extraction is very attractive
because it's, yeah, so cheap and fast,
but it won't work on some websites if they require
JavaScript rendering.
And like a lot of people, they need to crawl like hundreds
of thousands of websites.
And so like for them to check every website,
whether which method to prefer, it's just not feasible.
Uh, that's why we default, uh, to browser, uh,
extraction right now, uh,
because it's like, yeah, the most generic.
So it, it will do a, like good job, uh, in all cases,
but, uh, we may, yeah, missing out on these improvements.
And so what we're working on is like this, uh, intelligent,
uh, switching, uh, to raw extraction if we see
that it's actually providing, uh, good results.
And, um, so, uh, later this year when you're making, uh,
extraction without specifying exact method to use, uh, like
behind the scenes, we would, uh, switch to the best method
for these websites.
And this would happen, like completely transparently.
And also there won't be like any delay here.
So even from the first request, we would like
behind the scenes, uh, try, uh, both methods at once
and see which one is better,
and then return you, uh, the best results.
And also, uh, very quickly would switch
to always using a particular downloading method,
uh, for this website.
Yeah, no, and, and of course our, our,
our cunning master plan is to weave that in
behind the scenes behind AI scraping, behind, you know,
general extraction behind the APIs.
So, you know, we can, you know,
just make it as easy as possible.
But of course, in all cases, allow, you know,
allow overrides, allow people to, you know,
if they have a particular choice, you can do that as well.
And, and of course, you know, we want to make sure that all
of these things are available, you know,
callable via our open source tools and, you know, and so on.
So that's, that's, that's, uh, where we're coming from.
So listen, uh, great chat, Constantine.
You know, I think we, we covered a lot of, you know,
what we're doing here, um, in the AI space.
You know, we, we didn't even touch on some of the use cases
that, you know, our clients are doing.
You know, we're, we're providing them with a whole lot
of things that they're doing really exciting things from an
AI perspective, but maybe we'll come back to
that in another, in another talk.
Um, but, uh, thanks for your time today, Constantine,
and you know, if, if,
if anyone has any questions, you know where to find us.
And so thanks all. Yeah,
See you soon. Thank you. Yeah,
thank you. See you.